---
applyTo: 'api/**'
---

- Use SpringBoot
- Use Lombok to simplify getter/setter and logger
- Error management:
  - When an error is catched without re-throw, it should be logged
  - The log should provide information about the context (some information of the parameters, ex: project Id)
  - When an exception is catched, the log should add it so we can see the stacktrace
  - If an error is not catched in the Rest controller, catch it using Spring mechanism
  - When an error is catched before returning a status code, the response should include a JSON object with a "message" field.
  - Input validation must be done at the controller level, before calling any business logic
- We should follow the good practices for REST API namings
- For creation (POST), we are not expecting the same object as the GET. Ex: we don't expect an id (which will be generated by the backend during the creation). So we should use DTO with a framework to map DTO to Entities.
- We should use at maximum the Spring Repositories. And Flyway to version the database schema.
- comments in the code should be in english

# Package structure best practices
- JPA entities must be placed in the `model` package (e.g. `model.fr.grozeille.db4all.api.Project`).
- DTOs for REST request/response must be placed in the `dto` package (e.g. `fr.grozeille.dataprep.api.dto.ProjectDto`).


# Class structure
- static members should be placed at the top of the class
- members should follow
- functions should be after the members

# Swagger
All API endpoints in the REST controllers must provide a OpenAPI documentation. Given the type of the input, output, possible errors, and requested authentication.